What Are Childhood Cancers?
Cancers that affect children from birth through age 14 are known as childhood cancers or pediatric cancers. Cancers that affect children ages 15 to 19 are known as adolescent cancers. 




Key Statistics
About 9,680 children in the United States will be diagnosed with cancer in 2026.

85% of children with cancer now survive 5 years or more. Overall, this is a huge improvement since the mid-1970s, when the 5-year survival rate was only about 58%. Still, survival rates depend on the type of cancer and other factors.

Causes, Risk Factors, and Prevention
Most childhood cancers are caused by DNA changes (mutations) that happen early in the child’s life, sometimes even before birth. Because of this, there are not many known risk factors or ways to prevent childhood cancers. 

Finding and Diagnosing Cancer in Children
Most cancers in children are found because a parent or doctor notices a sign or symptom the child is having. Some are found while getting tests for a different problem.

If a child has certain inherited gene mutations that increase their risk for cancer, their doctor might suggest talking to a genetic counselor to see if genetic testing is right for them.


Types of Childhood Cancers
The types of cancers that occur in children are often different from the types that occur in adults. The most common childhood cancers are:

Leukemia
Leukemia is the most common cancer in children. It starts in the blood and bone marrow. The most common types of leukemia in children are acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). “Acute” means these cancers grow quickly, so they need to be treated as soon as they are found.

Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors
Brain and spinal cord tumors are the second most common cancers in children. There are many types of brain and spinal cord tumors, and the treatment and outlook for each is different. In children, most brain tumors start in the lower parts of the brain, such as the cerebellum or brain stem. 

Neuroblastoma
Neuroblastoma is a cancer of immature nerve cells. It is the most common cancer in babies. Sometimes this cancer develops before birth and might be found during an ultrasound. It is most common in babies and young children under 5 years old. 


Wilms Tumor
Wilms tumor (also called nephroblastoma) starts in one or both kidneys. It is most often found in children about 3 to 4 years old. The first sign is usually swelling or a lump in the belly (abdomen). Sometimes it can also cause fever, pain, nausea, poor appetite, or other symptoms.

Lymphoma
Lymphoma starts in immune system cells called lymphocytes. It usually found first in the lymph nodes, or sometimes in the tonsils or thymus. Lymphoma can also affect the bone marrow and other organs. Symptoms depend on where it starts and can include weight loss, fever, sweats, tiredness (fatigue), or lumps around the neck, armpit, or groin.

Rhabdomyosarcoma
Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) starts in cells that normally form the muscles that attach to bone and help us move. RMS can develop almost any place in the body, but the most common areas are the head, neck, bladder, reproductive organs, arms, legs, chest, or belly. Depending on where it is, rhabdomyosarcoma can cause pain, swelling, a lump, or other symptoms.

Retinoblastoma
Retinoblastoma starts in the retina, the back part of the eye. It’s a rare cancer and occurs most often in babies and children under 6 years old. Retinoblastomas are usually found because a parent or doctor notices a child’s eye looks unusual, such as a pupil that looks white or pink when a light is shined on it. 

Osteosarcoma
Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone cancer. Most cases occur in teens and young adults but it can occasionally occur in younger children. It often starts in the bones of the arms, legs, or pelvis (hip). These tumors often cause pain or swelling.
Ewing Sarcoma
Ewing sarcoma is the second most common type of bone cancer. Most cases occur in teens and young adults. It usually starts in the bones of the pelvis (hip), ribs, shoulder blades, or legs. These tumors also often cause pain or swelling.


How a Childhood Cancer Diagnosis Affects the Family
When a child is diagnosed with cancer, families face overwhelming challenges, from managing emotions to balancing routines, relationships, and medical care. Learn practical ways to cope, communicate with your child, support siblings, and navigate the early days after diagnosis.

A father carrying his child in a sunny field
How to Cope if Your Child Has Cancer
Helping Your Child Adjust to a Cancer Diagnosis
Supporting Siblings of Children with Cancer

Childhood Cancer Treatment
If your child has been diagnosed with cancer, finding the right cancer care is essential. Here are some tips on navigating the health care system.

How Is Childhood Cancer Treated?
Treating childhood cancer is different from treating cancer in adults. Children often respond better to more intense treatments like chemotherapy, and care is usually given at specialized pediatric cancer centers. Learn more about types of treatment and how they help.

How to Find the Best Cancer Treatment for Your Child
Most children with cancer are treated at specialized children’s (pediatric) cancer centers, which offer the most up-to-date treatment and studies of promising new therapies. Some smaller or rural cancer centers partner with larger specialized centers to offer support such as telemedicine consultations or even clinical trials. 

Talking to Your Child's Cancer Care Team
Many healthcare professionals will be involved in caring for your child. So open, honest, and clear communication is crucial. Learn how to take an active role in your child's cancer care.

Survivorship – Life During and After Cancer Treatment
Survivorship begins at diagnosis and continues for a lifetime. Explore ways to help children stay connected to school, manage treatment side effects, rebuild strength, and handle emotional challenges. Find support for navigating long-term health needs, creating a survivorship care plan, and ensuring a smooth transition back to daily life.

asian boy practicing school work
Going to School During and After Cancer Treatment
Nutrition for Children with Cancer
Helping Your Child Transition from Treatment to Survivorship
Late and Long-term Effects of Childhood Cancer Treatment


